The Most Amazing Chocolate Cake
Author: Rachel Farnsworth
Yield: 3 9-inch rounds

Prep time: 10 mins
Cook Time: 35 mins
Time to Make It: 45 mins

Ingredients

    butter and flour for coating and dusting the cake pan
    3 cups all-purpose flour
    3 cups granulated sugar
    1½ cups unsweetened cocoa powder
    1 tablespoon baking soda
    1½ teaspoons baking powder
    1½ teaspoons salt
    4 large eggs
    1½ cups buttermilk
    1½ cups warm water
    ½ cup vegetable oil
    2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Chocolate Cream Cheese Buttercream Frosting

    1½ cups butter, softened
    8 oz cream cheese, softened
    1½ cups unsweetened cocoa powder
    3 teaspoons vanilla extract
    7-8 cups powdered sugar
    about ¼ cup milk (as needed)

Instructions
The Most Amazing Chocolate Cake

    Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter three 9-inch cake rounds. Dust with flour and tap out the excess.
    Mix together flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a stand mixer using a low speed until combined.
    Add eggs, buttermilk, warm water, oil, and vanilla. Beat on a medium speed until smooth. This should take just a couple of minutes.
    Divide batter among the three pans. I found that it took just over 3 cups of the batter to divide it evenly.
    Bake for 30-35 minutes until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.
    Cool on wire racks for 15 minutes and then turn out the cakes onto the racks and allow to cool completely.
    Frost with your favorite frosting and enjoy!

Chocolate Cream Cheese Buttercream Frosting

    In a large bowl, beat together butter and cream cheese until fluffy. Use a hand mixer or stand mixer for best results
    Add in cocoa powder and vanilla extract. Beat until combined.
    Beat in powdered sugar, 1 cup at a time. Add milk as necessary to make a spreadable consistency. The frosting should be very thick and will thicken even more if refrigerated.

Notes
METRIC MEASUREMENTS:
butter and flour for coating and dusting the cake pan
450 grams all-purpose flour
650 grams granulated sugar
155 grams unsweetened cocoa powder
17 grams baking soda
8 grams baking powder
11 grams salt
4 large eggs
350 ml buttermilk
350 ml warm water
115 ml vegetable oil
10 ml vanilla extract

Bake at 176 degrees celsius in three 23 centimeter pans